My motherland is India, where I was born. I adore India and am immensely proud of it. India is a huge democratic country with a population that is second only to China. It has a storied and illustrious past. It is regarded as the homeland of the world’s ancient civilization. It is a land of learning, with students coming from all over the world to study in its universities. This country is known for its unique and diversified culture and traditions, which are influenced by people of various religions. People who live abroad are drawn to the culture and traditions of their home country because they are drawn to nature. Many assailants came here to steal their beauty and valuables. Some used it as a slave, but thanks to the efforts and sacrifices of many outstanding leaders throughout the country, our motherland was freed from British enslavement in 1947. 

Every year on August 15, the day our Motherland was liberated, we celebrate Independence Day. Pandit Nehru was India’s first Prime Minister. Despite the fact that the region is rich in natural resources, the people who live here are poor. This is constantly increasing in the realms of technology, science, and literature thanks to exceptional personalities like Ravindranath Tagore, Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose, Sir C.V. Raman, Shri H.N Bhabha, and others. This is a peaceful country where people freely celebrate their festivals and people of many religions adhere to their culture and traditions. The Taj Mahal is a significant memorial and symbol of love in India, and Kashmir resembles earth’s paradise. Famous temples, mosques, churches, gurudwaras, rivers, valleys, agricultural land, and the highest mountain are all found in this country.

Festivals are an essential aspect of human life because they bring joy and break up the monotony of our daily routines. Festivals happen every month or two, and they allow us to get together and enjoy many facets of life. It fosters communal cohesion and strengthens ties between people of various backgrounds. Every country has its own set of festivals that are tied to its culture and religion. India, on the other hand, is a country with diversified culture, and it celebrates a variety of festivals throughout the year. In India, festivals are split into three categories: national, seasonal, and religious.

National festivals honour significant national events, personalities, and historical figures. Independence Day, Republic Day, Children’s Day, Earth Day, National Environment Day, Gandhi Jayanti, and other national holidays are among them. People of all religions, creeds and genders participate enthusiastically in such events, which are marked by a strong sense of patriotism. 

Religious festivals, on the other hand, are observed throughout India and include Diwali, Christmas, Guru Nanak Jayanti, Eid-Ul-Fitr, Holi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Shivratri, Krishan Ashtami, and many others. Such celebrations are vibrant and enjoyable, and they are celebrated with a lot of hype.

Then there are the seasonal festivals, which are commemorated in accordance with the various seasons encountered in various Indian states. Pongal is a Tamil Nadu festival, while Bihu is observed in Assam, Onam is honoured in Kerala, and Basant Panchmi is celebrated in North India.

In a nutshell, festivals offer excitement and delight to people’s lives while also bringing them closer together. People put aside their thoughts of enmity and animosity and get together to celebrate festivals. Every year, India’s rich cultural past brings a slew of festivals to the country, and people from all walks of life come together to enjoy and celebrate them.